---
layout: page
title: Team Contract Outline
---

# The Problem

Often, at HM, new people will struggle to find a consistent group of friends due to the social environment. Such a friend group is vital to have for mental and emotional health in high school, especially as the schoolwork ramps up in junior and senior years. While many people who have been at HM since elementary or middle school already have made friends and formed groups, it can be difficult for those who come in high school, whether that be in ninth grade or later, to similarly make friends. Cliques are evidently the foundation of the social structure at Horace Mann, and many people find it difficult to branch out and talk to new people. When someone is new to the school, they may feel awkward trying to make friends or reach out and talk to others who are a part of a different friend group. If people who already have a friend group don't want to meet other people, and new people don't feel comfortable talking to people with pre-established friend groups, this creates a social divide, making it difficult for these new students to make friends. Although cliques are not necessarily unwelcoming to others, the natural tendency to gravitate towards people with whom you are already friends can make people feel excluded from friend groups. During the FoTW Lab, we saw people huddled together on the main field in small groups. It is often intimidating to walk up to a group of people, especially if you don't know them, and these small groups can seem especially exclusive to those not in the group. 

# Why and How We Want to Tackle This Problem

We believe this problem is challenging, and one worth solving, because of the beneficial effects it would have on the social lives of people within our grades. By tackling this issue of exclusive social cliques, we would help people meet those in other friend groups and get to know them better. This would be especially beneficial to new students, who can have trouble meeting other people, especially those who are already in a clique. However, there are some positive aspects to social cliques that we should try to preserve, and not design our app to fully destroy social cliques. Social cliques help connect people who have mutual friends, and help those within the clique to become better friends. I think that our app needs to focus on opening social cliques to more people, especially new students, but at the same time, should not try to break apart groups of friends that already exist. For example, if there is a group of four friends, our app should focus on encouraging those four to include others in their friend group in a creative and HM-specific way. 

# Contextual Inquiries

For our contextual inquiry, we want to focus on observing students at HM in different settings. We can choose three people that can help us better understand how to best facilitate community engagement. 

First of all, we feel that we should meet with some student that has recently come into the Upper Division. Whether that be a ninth grader who did not come from the Middle Division or a tenth or eleventh grader who came into HM this school year, we want someone's perspective on what it was like trying to integrate themselves into the social life here. Preferably, this person would not have had many friends at HM prior to coming in, so we can gain the perspective of someone who really had to put in effort to meet new people here. In our contextual inquiry, we would be able to follow this person around, see who they interact with, where they go, and how this is reflective of their just joining the HM community. Also, in interviewing this person, we could gain insight to what their experience was coming into HM. 

For our second person, we would like to interview someone who has been at Horace Mann for a while, preferably since the Lower or Middle Division. This would allow us to gain the perspective of someone who is not new to HM, something we could contrast with the first person. We would also want this person to be a ninth grader, so when we follow them around, we would be able to see the people who they interact with, including those who are new to the school. We could begin to understand the dynamics between different groups of friends, giving us a better idea of what we could do to foster relations between people. Furthermore, we could contrast this person's experience with the person who recently joined HM, and the people with whom they interact, and see the ways in which they are similar and different. In our interview with this person, we could talk about the new people that have (or haven't) joined their friend groups, and why they think these people were accepted (or excluded) from this friend group. In the case of both these student interviews, we would be sure to maintain a distance and respect privacy, not being too invasive, much like in the FoTW lab. Because these two people would likely both be freshmen, Aashna and Aanya can reach out to them and try to schedule a time that works for this activity.

Our third person would be an HMO teacher. We want to interview someone who has experience in dealing with social cliques at HM, and teaching about including others. For example, we might ask an HMO teacher how they might think about a scenario in which a new student is trying to join another student's friend group, and what they might do if they disliked each other. An HMO teacher would have tremendous insight into interactions within the high school, and would have much more wisdom about how to handle such scenarios than a high schooler. We might ask to perform a FoTW in an HMO class, observing the interactions between people and how that reflected the social cliques that existed, and to maybe observe the freshmen looking at and discussing a scenario regarding social life and exclusion of people. Because many of the HMO Peer Leaders are juniors, Jacob could ask a friend to come and sit in on a HMO class, and be given the name of an HMO teacher to possibly interview. If we choose to do an interview with this teacher, or with either of the students, we would make sure to find an empty room, whether a classroom or in the library, a spot outside, or just in the cafeteria or Olshan Lobby, with masks on, of course. 
