---
layout: post
title: Contextual Inquiry and Write - Up
cover-img: /assets/img/Screenshot 2021-12-06 at 1.34.30 PM.png
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/Screenshot 2021-12-06 at 12.39.55 PM.png
share-img: /assets/img/Screenshot 2021-12-06 at 12.39.55 PM.png
tags: [Cliques, Context, Interview, HM]
--- 

Contextual Inquiry:

For our first Contextual Inquiry, we conducted an interview with a freshman who came to Horace Mann in 6th grade, and who none of us knew that well. Let’s call them Unicorn. The interview was conducted in the library during lunch time, meaning that it was slightly loud and there were lots of people there. We wanted this somewhat informal environment so that we could get more casual, and therefore, more real, answers from Unicorn. We made sure to mention that this Contextual Inquiry would be completed anonymously, so as to get the most honest answers. We also told Unicorn to just act like this was a casual conversation and not an interview, so they would be more open with us. The first thing that Unicorn told us when we asked about their friend group was that they had a fairly established and unchanging group of friends. Occasionally, others would join them for lunch or hang out with them, but they were not really a part of the group. We asked Unicorn if someone else would be able to join the group: They said that friendships change over time and that while it was possible that someone could join the group, the original people in the group would never change. After that, we asked Unicorn if there were any factors that influence the formation of friend groups in general. Unicorn said that ethnicity and topics of interest (both in and out of school) definitely play a role in the formation of friend groups, including Unicorn's. The people in their group are all of one ethnicity, and they generally share an interest in similar topics and views of certain subjects. Unicorn also gave us some important information: they said that the level of difficulty in forming or joining a friend group often depends on the year in which a person came into HM. Unicorn said that since they joined in 6th grade, it was relatively easy for them to make friends (since almost half the grade was new to HM). However, they mentioned that it would be more difficult for someone coming to the school in 9th grade as they believe that less people are looking for friends then. A small difficulty that we encountered were interruptions to our interview. Our attempt to foster a casual environment by going to the library meant that some of both of our friends came up to us, unfortunately and unknowingly interrupting our interview. I don't think this impacted the results of our Inquiry, it was just an inconvenience. For our future inquiries, we will generally follow the same protocol as this one, however, we will ask more follow up questions depending on their answers in order to get a deeper understanding on their answer. We had a plan of questions we wanted to ask them, however it could be less rigid next time.

For one of our contextual inquiries, we met with Drs. Westphal, Pervil, and Rothstein from the Guidance and Counseling Office, which runs the HMO program. Not only are they great resources because they run the HMO program, which is intended to incorporate students into the different high school environment, but also because the Guidance and Counseling Office is responsible for helping students during difficult times in high school. And in truth, there are few times more difficult than when you first come into high school. They truly are experts on child development and psychology, and this provides important insight into how to best find and address a problem in the HM Community. In this Contextual Inquiry, we structured our questions towards them in an interview style, but also tried to ask them real-life questions centered around the real experiences of potential users of our app. An important thing that they pointed our during our interview was that many kids come from eighth grade with an already established friend group. It can be daunting for new students to approach these people who already have friends and might not be looking to branch out. There can also be something of a "culture shock," where people are used to being the smartest and most successful students at their old school, but then have to come into an environmental where everyone is also incredibly smart. However, they also pointed out that this time can be quite difficult for old students, who might be seeing their friend groups get split up and people who were previously their best friends make friends with others. They also pointed out something really interesting about friend groups: often, they are not just a way to get to know others better, but rather about giving people the sense of belonging. Though you might not be best friends with everyone in that friend group, a strong group dynamic will often form. Another important thing that they pointed out in our conversation is that the school doesn't really make a concerted effort towards helping new students. In HMO specifically, besides on maybe the first day, Peer Leaders and teachers don't think about either new students or old students specifically, but rather try to promote messages that resonate with everyone. This means that the school doesn't specifically try to include new students into HM social life, but rather just hopes everything will work out. This is a place where an app might be helpful. Furthermore, new students, and really all students coming into ninth grade, don't know as much about the resources the Upper Divisions provides to students. For example, the Guidance and Counseling people mentioned that only 2-3 ninth graders would come in each year, and the majority of people that usually come in are juniors and seniors. They mentioned past initiatives had been made towards better incorporating ninth graders into the high school. One more important point made during the interview was that the students who played sports in fall of ninth grade would often make friends with their teammates during preseason, which would already give them friends when school began. HMO is such a valuable opportunity for ninth graders to meet upperclassmen. However, the bond between Peer Leaders (high school students who run HMO) and HMO students (ninth graders) rarely extends beyond the classroom. Such a bond would be helpful to better incorporate new students into the high school and its social life. 

Our third Contextual Inquiry/Interview was with a freshman who came to Horace Mann this year and, again, whom known of us knew very well. Let’s call them A. It started as a contextual inquiry where we went wherever A went while they interacted with whomever and whatever they wished, and after about 20 minutes, there was a debrief, in which we had the opportunity to ask A some questions about their experiences at HM so far. This took place during their lunch period, so the first place A went was the cafeteria. They went alone, but waved and said hello to a few people. They sat down to eat lunch on the first floor of Fisher, near the staircase, at one of the tables. There are only two chairs per table due to Covid precautions, and they sat with someone else (called L). Since we weren’t eating lunch, we sat with them as well. A and L didn’t talk while eating. A was scrolling on their phone while L wasn’t. Once, A showed L something on their phone, but after that it was quiet. Other people were eating nearby and A and L seemed to know them as when a person (E) came over, A said “Hi [E]!” and invited them to sit with L and them. E responded to their greeting but mumbled something about already sitting somewhere else and sat a few tables away. The other tables were talking, but A and L were still quiet. After some time, A got up without saying anything to L and went over to E. They asked them if they had gotten Covid tested yet (as everyone needed to get tested last week), and when E said, “No,” A recommended that they should go now since they had finished eating a long time ago. E agreed and got up. A got their stuff from L’s table and mentioned to them that they were going to get tested and left. After they got tested, we talked to A alone and asked them a few questions. We asked about A’s relationship with both E and L. They said that at the beginning of the year, they really wanted to be a part of E’s friend group, but felt angry and upset that they barely had any of those people in their classes. The only ones were E and another person (R). L wasn’t part of that friend group, but A had met L in another class. A had tried to become closer with E and R, but was only successful at hanging out with E outside of school, so only E and them had gotten closer. A still felt uncomfortable hanging out with E’s friend group (which could explain why they sat at a different table than E) but likes hanging out with E alone. A was closer with L at the beginning of the year, but since L wasn’t friends with E as well, A and L grew apart, especially since L was more introverted and A was trying to make new friends. When asked if A still wanted to join E’s and R’s friend group, A confirmed that she did, but that not everyone in the group seemed like they were willing to make new friends. The reason we had inquired about A’s relationship with both E and L was that A and L’s lack of interaction seemed strange, but, after hearing A’s answer, it made more sense. A was/is probably insecure about their standing in E’s friend group, and because of that, wants to spend as much time with E as possible, even if that means cutting short their time with L. E’s response to A asking them to sit with A and L was also unusual. One reason for that could be that E wanted to spend time with their own friend group, and, knowing that A didn’t feel entirely comfortable with them, decided to split the lunch period between hanging out with both separately. Also, it’s possible that E knows that their friend group doesn’t like A (which we don’t actually know to be true) and doesn’t want to be seen hanging out with A in front of them.

Write up: 

All three of our inquires/interviews were very insightful and informative, giving us a lot of data that we expected, but also some that we didn’t. We got distinct pieces of information from each person, but they also corroborated what the others had said, and our data didn’t contradict each other (which increases its validity). We learnt that whether it was from a student, teacher, or outsider perspective, it is clear the most cliques and friendships are already formed and don't change a lot, and htis can be especially daunting to new students who intend to join or form their own friend group. Bonding, whether it is with new or old studetns, occurs for a variety of factors including ethnicity, age, interests, and of course, personality. Clubs, teams, and group projects can also help with the formation of friend groups, both for new and old students. As well as that, new students experience insecurities and culture shock when it comes to forming friends and keeping the frienships. 

We conducted three different inquires; two were with students while the third was with teachers. 

Our first inquiry was an interview with a freshman who had come to HM in 6th grade. This was so we could get the perspective of a student who wasn’t new to the school and would most likely have a pre-established friend group. We learned things that we hadn’t previously considered; specifically that ethnicity and interests impact the formation of friend groups. The rest of what the student had said lined up with what we had thought: in 9th grade, less people are looking for friends, so its harder to new people to make friendships. Also, friend groups are relatively unchanging and while some people drift in and out, the core remains the same.

Our second inquiry was also an interview with three teachers from the Guidance and Counseling Office. Instead of being viewed as potential users, we saw them as potential stakeholders as their job and role in the school is often to help people build a stronger sense of community together which strongly correlates with what we are trying to do. Dr. Westphal, Dr. Pervil, and Dr. Rothstein gave us many insights into what the school does to combat the issue of exclusion due to friend groups and where that system is lacking. While their office is a great resource for any student struggling, its one that many students (specifically 9th graders) aren’t aware of. Also, while HMO does a great job of connecting upperclassmen with 9th graders, there isn’t any focus on new students. They also mentioned the benefits of having a strong friend group as it gives you a sense of belonging in the school, something that new students in particular may lack. 

Our third, and final, inquiry was a contextual inquiry with a ninth grade student who had come to HM this year. They didn’t know many people before coming in, and this was exactly what we had wanted since this showed us what the experience was like for someone who went to HM for the first time and had to figure out the social system by themself. We learned how hard they were finding it to join the friend group they wanted to, even though they were close with an individual member of the group. They had been close with another person at the beginning of the year, but since they weren’t part of the friend group our person was trying to join and spending all of their free time with, they grew apart. By the way they were describing it, high school seemed like a “survival of the fittest” game where if you weren’t friends with the right people from the start, you automatically got left behind.
